.TH METEORREADPOINTS 3  2007-02-25 "Meteor Manpage"
.SH NAME
meteorReadPoints, meteorReadTriangles, meteorWritePoints,  meteorWriteTriangles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <meteor.h>
.sp
.BI "int meteorReadPoints(int count, int format, int type, void *data);"
.br
.BI "int meteorReadTriangles(int count, int format, int type, void *data);"
.br
.BI "int meteorWritePoints(int count, int format, int type, const void *data);"
.br
.BI "int meteorWriteTriangles(int count, int format, int type, const void *data);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions provide low-level access to point and triangle data.  The
orientation of the triangle is determined by the order of the triple.
.SH COUNT
The count specifies how many Points or Triangles to process with this call.
.SH FORMAT
The \fBformat\fP parameter determines what data
to operate on.  The format is either \fBMETEOR_INDEX\fP, or a bitwise mask of
\fBMETEOR_COORDS\fP, \fBMETEOR_NORMALS\fP, \fBMETEOR_COLORS\fP,
and \fBMETEOR_TEXCOORDS\fP.  The pointdata that is stored or retrieved
from the \fBdata\fP parameter is either a single value which is an index for
the point, or a sequence of tightly packed triples containing at least one of:
coords, normals, colors, or texture coordinates in this order. All data has 3
parts except index data has 1 part.  An index of 0 is the first point when
using \fBmeteorReadPoints\fP or \fBmeteorWritePoints\fP. The highest index
is 1 less than meteorPointCount().  \fBMETEOR_INDEX\fP cannot be used when
writing points.  When writing points, a new point is created if
\fBMETEOR_COORDS\fP is specified, otherwise, the current point's data is
updated.  When writing triangles, a new triangle is always created.
.SH TYPE
The \fBtype\fP parameter specifies the type of the data,
\fBMETEOR_INT\fP, \fBMETEOR_UNSIGNED_INT\fP, \fBMETEOR_FLOAT\fP,
\fBMETEOR_DOUBLE\fP, and \fBMETEOR_LONG_DOUBLE\fP are supported.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On error, -1 is returned, and \fBmeteorError\fP is set. Otherwise the count
processed is returned.  When reading, if this value is less than \fBcount\fP
then there is no more data to read.  Subsequent calls before calling
\fBmeteorRewind\fP will return 0.
.SH ERRORS
These functions will fail if:
.br
1. The data \fBformat\fP requested does not exist in the meteor.
.br 
2. The data \fBtype\fP is not supported.
.br
3. When reading data, \fBmeteorRewind\fP was not called since other meteor modification has
occured.
.br
4. When writing triangles, specifying data along with index data.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR meteor (1)
.BR meteorRewind (3)
.BR meteorError (3)
