.TH meteor 1 "25 Feb 2007" "Version 0.6" "Meteor Manual Page"

.SH NAME
meteor \- Meteor mesh generation tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmeteor\fP [\fIoptions\fP] [\fIinput file\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmeteor\fP is a utility to generate, simplify, and display triangle meshes.
meteor generates meshes by evaluating functions of the form f(x, y, z) = 0.

.SH INFORMATION OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
display usage message

.TP
.B --keys
display information about keys at runtime

.TP
.B -q, --quiet
hid console output

.TP
.B --version
print version information and exit

.SH FILE OPTIONS

.TP
.B -c, --create [FILE]
Generate an output file of mesh data that can later be read in with the
--file option.  The file will include vertex data, and optionally
normal, color, and texture data.  For a detailed description of formats
see \fBmeshSave (3)\fP

.TP
.B -f, --file [FILE]
Read mesh data from a file created by --create instead of generating it.
With this option an input source file or equation parameter is not used.

.TP
.B --input-format [FORMAT]
specify a format of 'help' to list supported formats

.TP
.B --output-format [FORMAT]
specify a format of 'help' to list supported formats

.SH GENERATION OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a, --animate
Run meteor in animation mode, the input source file should define a function
named update which is invoked after each frame is built.

.TP
.B -e, --equation
Specify an equation instead of using an input source file.
This is useful for simple tests, if no = is used, it assumed = 0.
eg: -ex*x+y*y+z*z=.5

.TP
.B -s, --step step size
Specify the step size to use, default .05  A smaller step size produces more triangles
at the expense of longer run time.

.TP
.B -[xyz]
Specify the bounds for x, y, or z axis, the default is -1,1.
eg: "-x -5,5"

.TP
.B --max-frames [NUM]
When --animate is specified, abort after NUM frames have been generated.

.TP
.B --max-triangles [NUM]
Specify the maximum number of triangles in the mesh while building, this
value can be used to allow processing of much larger meshes than would
fit in ram as the mesh is contracted while being built.  For the best results,
NUM should be set higher than the desired final count, and --triangles performs
merge operations at the end to bring the count down.

.SH SIMPLIFICATION OPTIONS
.TP
.B -t, --triangles [NUM]
contract edges to get as close as possible to NUM triangles

.TP
.B -j, --aggregation [NUM]
Run the aggregation algorithm on the mesh, merging the closest points together
until there are not more than NUM points remaining.

.TP
.B --clip [EQUATION]
Remove any data that is under the specified equation

.TP
.B --correct-texcoords
 generate multiple points in the same location attempting to
correct texture mapping errors, for an example, from the src dir:

meteor models/earth.c --texture models/earth.png --correct-texcoords

.TP
.B -r, --propagate [ITERS]
After the mesh is simplified by merging points, the resulting vertexes will
be slightly away from the surface, this step will propagate those vertexes
toward the surface along their normal.  Larger iterations produce better
results with diminishing returns.

.SH TRANSFORMATION OPTIONS
.TP
.B --rotate [angle,x,y,z]
Rotate all points and normals by angle in degrees around the vector <x,y,z>

.TP
.B --translate [x,y,z]
Translate all points by the vector <x,y,z>

.TP
.B --scale [x,y,z]
Scale the position of each point by the vector <x,y,z>

.SH DISPLAY OPTIONS
.TP
.B -k, --keypress [KEY]
Pass a keyboard input to the program at startup, this is the same as not
using this option, then pressing key when in glut display mode, but can
be the only way to modify display parameters in osmesa mode.  For example
-kl will start up in wireframe mode.  See KEYS.

.TP
.B -o, --no-normals
Do not generate or calculate normals or use lighting when displaying.

.TP
.B -n, --no-display
Do not display, it is still possible to generate mesh data and output
to a file, or benchmark in this mode, it does not require opengl.

.TP
.B --texture [FILE]
Use image file for displaying the texture.  Right now the only supported
format is png.

.TP
.B --3D-texture [FILE]
Same as --texture, but instead creates a spherical 3d texture.

.TP
.B  --osmesa [FILE]
This option only works if compiled with OSMesa support.  Instead of displaying
the mesh, a file is generated intead.  If --animate is not specified, then the
output file will be png, otherwise it is a video based on the extension
(.mp4 and .avi are known to work).  See --geometry to specify the size.

.TP
.B -g, --geometry WxH
Specify default size hint, if this option is not used, 640x480 will be used.

.TP
.B --loop
When displaying animations from a file, this option will cause the animation
to loop repeatedly rather than stop on the last mesh

.SH INPUT FILE
The \fIinput file\fP is a c source file specifying various functions with
c-linkage:
        init -- Called once at startup
        func -- Mesh generation function
        normal -- Normal function
        color -- Color function
        texcoord -- Texcoord function
        update -- called after each frame is built in animation mode
        clip -- clipping equation

.SH KEYS
.RE
.B
        arrow keys - 
rotate x,y axis
.RE
.B
        insert/delete -
rotate z axis
.RE
.B
        w,a,s,d - 
translate on x,y axis
.RE
.B
        pageup/pagedown -
translate on z axis
.RE
.B
        1,2 -
adjust the far clipping plane
.RE
.B
        3,4 -
adjust the near clipping plane
.RE
.B
        5,6 -
adjust the field of view
.RE
.B
        o -
toggle on/two sided lighting
.RE
.B
        v - 
begin video capture
.RE
.B
        b - 
end video capture
.RE
.B
        n - 
take screenshot
.RE
.B
        l - 
toggle wireframe mode
.RE
.B
        c - 
toggle backface culling
.RE
.B
        f - 
toggle flat shading
.RE
.B
        m - 
perform one edge reduction
.RE
.B
        ESC or q -
exit

.SH EXAMPLES
.RE
Sphere: meteor --equation "x*x + y*y + z*z - .5"
.RE
Torus: meteor --triangles 2000 --equation "pow(.4 - sqrt(x*x + y*y), 2) + z*z - .1"
.RE
From a file: meteor models/sphere.c
.RE
Piping: meteor --equation "x*x + y*y + z*z - .5" --no-display --create - | ./meteor --file -
.RE
Animated: meteor models/growingsphere.c -as.05 
.PP
generate 50 frames of a simplified mesh animation of a growing sphere, then use the sphere mesh data and generate a movie of it
.RE
meteor sphere.c -c sphere -avnm 1000 --max-frames 50
.RE
meteor -af sphere --osmesa sphere.mp4
