.TH METEORLOAD 3  2007-02-25 "Meteor Manpage"
.SH NAME
meteorLoad, meteorSave
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
.B #include <meteor.h>
.sp
.BI "int meteorLoad(FILE *file, int fileformat);"
.br
.BI "int meteorSave(FILE *file, int fileformat);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions \fBmeteorLoad\fP and \fBmeteorSave\fP read and write respectively
the current meteor data from a file stream.  The \fBfileformat\fP parameter
specifies the format to use, see \fBFORMATS\fP below for possible formats.
If \fBfile\fP is NULL then no operation is performed, only a test is made
to verify the given \fBfileformat\fP
is available.
.SH FORMATS
.TP
.B
METEOR_FILE_FORMAT_TEXT
The first line has 3 integers.  The first number is a mask of the point data to
come. The masks are 1=Position, 2=Normals, 4=Colors, 8=Texcoords.  For example,
a value of 13 means Position, Colors and Texcoords, a value of 1 means only
Position.  The second and third numbers are the number of points and triangles.
The next line is numeric data for first point in the meteor.  The number of
numbers on this line is based on the mask.  Each point is separated by a
newline.  After all of the points the triangle data follows as space separated
triples of point indexes.  The last triangle is followed by two newlines.  To
see an example of this execute "meteor -nt8 -ex -c-".
.TP
.B
METEOR_FILE_FORMAT_BINARY
This format is nearly identical to METEOR_FILE_FORMAT_TEXT except it ommits all
whitespace and newlines, and instead of using ascii representations for
numbers, 32bit integers, and 64bit ieee754 floats are used.
This format is potentially less portable but has much faster load and save times
and also stores more precision.
.TP
.B
METEOR_FILE_FORMAT_WAVEFRONT
This format is currently only supported for writing and does not support
colors.  It might be used to import data into other applications.

.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return 0 on success and -1 on failure.  \fBmeteorLoad\fP may
fail if the data read is not in the right format.  Other errors include
io errors, or use of an unsupported format.  If a failure occurs,
\fBmeteorError\fP will be set.
.SH NOTES
These functions are convenience for reading and writing a meteor from disk, they
are implemented entirely on top of \fBmeteorReadPoints\fP,
\fBmeteorReadTriangles\fP, \fBmeteorWritePoints\fP, and \fBmeteorWriteTriangles\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR meteor (1)
.BR meteorReadPoints (3)
.BR meteorError (3)
